[Music]
all right what do you think is the most
effective exercise for your entire body
there are numerous workouts that target
each and every of your muscles but
there's none better for your stamina and
endurance than planking hey shiver me
timbers time to walk the plank
no not that kind of plank you goof sorry
matey our anyway if you think plank is a
static exercise with little dynamics
then think again today I'm going to tell
you about different variations of plank
that will bring your exercise routine to
a new level let's start with the basics
and remember what the classic plank is
lie on the floor face down propping your
upper body on your hands and your lower
body on the tips of your toes your palms
should be planted firmly onto the floor
right beneath your shoulders keep your
arms straight and don't crane your neck
to look forward you should be facing the
floor as well your body should form a
straight line from the nape of your neck
to your heels for the entire duration of
the plank stay in this position for 30
seconds that's it perfect the standard
plank strengthens your core abs and back
as you progress it'll become easier to
perform so when you're ready increase
the time you hold the position first to
45 seconds then to a minute and so on
until you reach two minutes the same
applies to the rest of the planks you're
going to see in this video so just hold
it okay now that you've learned the
ropes let's upgrade your planking
routine and make up a super workout made
entirely of different kinds of planks
number one plank walk down this
variation engages not only your core but
also your biceps as well as your back
and abdominal muscles basically it's a
lot like push-ups only modified to make
it easier for beginners start in the
elbow plank your lower body is on your
tiptoes but the upper body is propped on
your bent elbows
your hands should lie flat on the floor
palms down and your forearms tense and
ready for action now pull your right arm
from the floor and place your palm where
your right elbow has just been right
beneath the shoulder pushing yourself up
with your right arm pull your left one
and do the same you're now in the
standard plank now reverse the movements
first lower your right forearm back on
the floor then your left one repeat for
30 seconds gradually increasing the time
as you progress number 2 Tom Cruise
plank or a spider-man plank if you like
whichever's your choice the exercise is
all about training your entire body
shoulders forearms calves thighs and abs
start in the classic plank position
slowly move your right hand and foot to
the right and left hand and foot to the
left put them as far apart as you can
then lower your body to the floor so
that you're kind of floating just above
it your core should be tense by now and
your arms bent at the elbows try to hold
the tremor in your core and hold this
position for 30 seconds number 3 side
plank with foot touching this variety is
awesome for your shoulders arms and hips
get into the side plank position lie on
your side propping your upper body on
the left forearm and your feet on top of
each other
stretch your right arm up towards the
ceiling now swing your right leg up
trying to touch the tips of your toes
with the fingers of your outstretched
arm the swinging leg should be kept
straight at all time don't bend it at
the knee and don't let your torso sag to
the floor either do this for 30 seconds
then turn on your right side and do the
same thing with your left arm and leg
number for me to elbow side plank well
you're still in the side plank position
it's a good idea to switch to another
exercise that targets the same muscles
as the previous one and adds an
group to them your glutes but what
exactly return to the side plank on your
left side and put your right hand behind
your head so that your elbow sticks out
toward the ceiling now bend your right
leg at the knee and crunch reaching your
knee to the elbow once again make sure
your core doesn't sag to the floor
continue doing this for 30 seconds then
turn on your other side and repeat the
same with your left arm and leg number 5
plank side walk this is a lighter
exercise to give you a little breather
before the tough stuff it targets mainly
your back and shoulders start in the
standard plank position and lift both
your right arm and leg from the floor
move them simultaneously to the right
plant back on the floor and move the
left arm and leg to the same side now
make the same crawling movement back
starting with your left arm and leg
make sure your pelvis doesn't go up and
keep your body in a straight line all
the time as usual
repeat the cross for 30 seconds number 6
one-armed plank remember about the tough
stuff here goes this blank variety is
not exactly for beginners so don't feel
frustrated if you can't hold it even for
30 seconds it'll make your core and
especially your shoulders burn start in
the elbow plank position and lift your
left arm off the floor place it along
your body propping yourself only on your
right forearm try not to shake and don't
let your torso or pelvis rock to the
side keep this position for 30 seconds
or as long as you can and then repeat
with the other arm remember keeping the
form is key
number seven plank side jumps this
exercise works wonders for your hips
glutes calves abs and back it also acts
as a moderately effective cardio
exercise getting your heart rate up
which is always nice get into the
standard or if you're not yet confident
the elbow plank position put your feet
together and start jumping from side to
side moving your lower body from the
pelvis down
make sure your core remains stable
though and increase the swing when you
feel you could do it just don't jump too
high thirty seconds should be easy for
this exercise so feel free to extend it
as you see fit
number eight side to side plank your
back glutes and thighs will thank you
for this rock and roll variety of a
plank thank you thanks thank you
oh thank you oh you're welcome guys get
in the elbow plank position and roll
your hips to the side try touching the
floor with your hip before going back up
get back to the center position and roll
on to the other side make sure your core
doesn't sag or lift and your feet
shouldn't move either rolling with the
rest of your lower body but remaining in
their place continue doing this for 30
seconds number nine
leg lifting plank now this is a mix of
planking and stretching which helps you
avoid injuries and do some endurance
training at the same time leg lifting
plank targets your obliques glutes and
latissimus dorsi or the biggest back
muscles nicknamed lats start in the
elbow plank position keep your legs
straight and raise your left leg up bent
only at the foot stretch until you feel
slight tension in your hamstring and
glutes but don't overdo it if you feel
pain or unpleasant sensation you're
probably trying too hard
lower your leg back to the floor and
repeat with your right leg continue
switching legs for 30 seconds number 10
plank forward slide this one looks
simple but hey you know better already
right forward slight plank will train
your calves
abs and biceps elbow plank is your
initial position once again push your
entire body with the tips of your toes
so that you slide forward and then
return to the starting position by
pushing back with your forearms it's
very important not to let your back arch
or sag and to keep your abs tense
continue sliding back and forth for 30
seconds number 11
cross step plank another plank variation
they get your muscles stretched while
strengthening your core back and legs
Lulu a twofer or three-fer start with a
classic plank position now lift your
left leg off the floor turn your pelvis
to the right and try reaching your left
knee to the right elbow I know it sounds
impossible but if you do everything
correctly it should be a piece of cake
to you return to the initial position
and repeat all that with your other side
keep going until your 30 seconds are up
number 12 PPT plank PPT stands for
posterior pelvic tilt which probably
still doesn't make any sense
anyway what this exercise is about is
building a lot of tension in your core
activating your abs like nothing else
start in the elbow plank position the
thing is this plank doesn't involve
actual movement you should press your
forearms and toe tips hard to the floor
and pull them together all the while
resisting with your core so as not to
fold like a book at the same time
squeeze your abs as hard as you can this
is your plank position hold it for 10 to
15 seconds if you do everything right
you'll probably not be able to keep it
much longer anyways relax and repeat
after 10 seconds well done so that's it
for today's planking workout I bet your
muscles are aching right now and they
should be after all plank is a real
endurance exercise and what you've done
today is a lot of extra training repeat
this workout two or three times a week
and you'll see your body transforming
within a month
now do you know any other plank
variations that might be useful to add
here let me know down in the comments if
you learn something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend but hey don't go anywhere just
yet hmm we have over 2,000 cool videos
for you to check out all you have to do
is pick the left or right video click on
it and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life